---
title: "Development of a Non-Invasive Adaptive Brain-Machine Interface for Long-Term Use and Motor Rehabilitation"
collection: poster
type: "Poster presentation"
permalink: /talks/2024-03-11-poster-3
venue: "Machine Learning Summer Course 2024"
date: 2024-03-11
location: "OIST, Okinawa, Japan"
---

Brain-machine interface (BMI) is a technology intended to rehabilitate or support people with motor, cognitive or sensory impairments. Currently, BMI as an assistive technology is restricted to controlled environments such as research laboratories and specialized rehabilitation centers, the main reason being the intra-subject high variability of the brain signal and a lack of a solution that robustly represents this signal over time. This project tackles this problem by implementing a real-time brain-machine interface that translates motor imagery of the user into control of an application. Motor imagery being a brain cortical activity elicited when a person imagines to move a limb or part of the body without overt movement and which representation changes with a learning effect. The model implemented process epochs of electroencephalography signal containing lower limb movement trials, right upper limb movement trials, left upper limb movement trials and baseline periods. At the initial session, a tangential riemannian classifier, which has shown significant results in the BMI literature, is calibrated: all trials are characterized as covariance matrices of EEG epochs, projected to a tangential euclidean space as feature vectors and classified with a logistic regressor. The activity of the first calibration defines a riemannian manifold of the person's mental state, and the mean covariance matrices of each class is saved, along with the center point of each class and dispersion in the euclidean tangential space. A rehabilitation protocol will update the initial representation during 2 months of motor imagery training of 6 subjects with chronic complete spinal cord injury and the characterization of outliers and change of representation of the classes will guide the development of an adaptive signal processing pipeline for real-time implementation. This protocol simulates the calibration of a BMI for long-term robust daily use by people with motor disabilities and the results are expected to be implemented in real-life applications.